We have a persona who is Francis State Department. She works at the State Department and she's getting directives directly from the White House Office on National Drug Control Policy, the White House ONDCP. She's being told that the president cares about making sure that drugs aren't getting into our country and she is charged trying to figure out how that happens. So she wants to go out and she wants to find the TTPs, the tactics, the protocol and threat techniques for how people are moving drugs. She wants to find what the history of this is and how it's going to be a problem for us in the coming year, the coming two years. She is tasked with producing a public-facing report which is going to change public sentiment about this issue across the country. She's also tasked with producing a private report which will include a targeting list which will include the actual methodologies for how these things are happening which will be passed around at other law enforcement agencies both in the US and internationally. So think about Homeland Security Investigations, the Drug Enforcement Agency, Interpol, the UN, the UNODC, the UN Office on Drug Control and she needs to think about how she's going to produce that report. So currently we have a workflow where she has to start, she has to start thinking about how she's going to produce a report. She needs to start with open source research which is going to include reading what literature exists, either it's reports on the internet, going to Google, looking on online marketplaces where people can buy chemicals. She's going to be talking to people that she knows, people at places like HSI, DEA, Interpol, how do you guys do this, how do you collect stuff, what are the methodologies that you guys do this and then she's going to start curating datasets. So think drug seizure lists from the DEA, from the UN, she's going to get lists of bad actors, company lists that advertise on marketplaces and she's going to get that from either academics or from nonprofits or from companies and then she's going to talk to people like logistics providers like DHS, FedEx, UPS. These companies track all of their known shipments from bad actors and they have spreadsheets that say when drugs are coming in, when they're bad and who are shipping them.